Glossary and terms (#1264)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/terms/elt.md

---
id: elt
title: ELT
displayText: ELT  
hoverSnippet: Extract, Load, Transform (ELT) is the process of first extracting data from different data sources, loading it into a target data warehouse, and finally transforming it.
---

> Extract, Load, Transform (ELT) is the process of first extracting data from different data sources, loading it into a target data warehouse, and finally transforming it.

Reviewer: We might want to add time to all three elements:
```suggestion
Extract, Load, Transform (ELT) is the process of first extracting data from different data sources, then loading it into a target data warehouse, and finally transforming it.
```

ELT has emerged as a paradigm for how to manage information flows in a modern data warehouse. This represents a fundamental shift from how data previously was handled when <Term id="etl">Extract, Transform, Load (ETL)</Term> was the data workflow most companies implemented.

> Transitioning from ETL to ELT means that you no longer have to capture your transformations during the initial loading of the data into your data warehouse. Rather, you are able to load all of your data, then build transformations on top of it. Data teams report that the ELT workflow has several advantages over the traditional ETL workflow which we’ll go over in-depth later in this glossary.

Reviewer: It would help to link to this reference:
> which we’ll go over in-depth later in this glossary.

## How ELT works

In an ELT process, data is extracted from data sources, loaded into a target data platform, and finally transformed for analytics use. We’ll go over the three components (extract, load, transform) in detail here.

> ![Diagram depicting the ELT workflow. Data is depicted being extracted from example data sources like an Email CRM, Facebook Ads platform, Backend databases, and Netsuite. The data is then loaded as raw data into a data warehouse. From there, the data is transformed within the warehouse by renaming, casting, joining, or enriching the raw data. The result is then modeled data inside your data warehouse.](/img/docs/terms/elt/elt-diagram.png)

Reviewer: I love this diagram! 😍

### Extract

> In the extraction process, data is extracted from multiple data sources. The data that is extracted is, for the most part, data that teams eventually want to use for analytics work. Some examples of data sources can include:

Reviewer: Removing excess words.
```suggestion
In the extraction process, data is extracted from multiple data sources. The data extracted is, for the most part, data that teams eventually want to use for analytics work. Some examples of data sources can include:
```

- Backend application databases 
- Marketing platforms 
- Email and sales CRMs 
- and more!

> Accessing these data sources via Application Programming Interface calls can be a challenge for individuals and teams who don't have the technical expertise or resources to create their own scripts and automated processes. However, the recent development of certain open-source and Software as a Service (SaaS) products has removed some of the need for this custom development work. By establishing the option to create and manage pipelines in an automated way, you can extract the data from data sources and load it into data warehouses via a User Interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accessing these data sources using Application Programming Interface (API) calls can be a challenge for individuals and teams who don't have the technical expertise or resources to create their own scripts and automated processes. However, the recent development of certain open-source and Software as a Service (SaaS) products has removed the need for this custom development work. By establishing the option to create and manage pipelines in an automated way, you can extract the data from data sources and load it into data warehouses via a user interface.
```

- And more!

...hence the need for transformation! During the transformation process, data from your data sources is usually:

- **Lightly Transformed**: Fields are cast correctly, timestamp fields’ timezones are made uniform, tables and fields are renamed appropriately, and more. 
- **Heavily Transformed**: Business logic is added, appropriate materializations are established, data is joined together, etc. 
- **QA’d**: Data is tested according to business standards. In this step, data teams may ensure primary keys are unique, model relations match-up, column values are appropriate, and more.

Common ways to transform your data include leveraging modern technologies such as dbt, writing custom SQL scripts that are automated by a scheduler, utilizing stored procedures, and more.

## ELT vs ETL

The primary difference between the traditional ETL and the modern ELT workflow is when data transformation and loading take place. In ETL workflows, data extracted from data sources is transformed prior to being loaded into target data platforms. Newer ELT workflows have data being transformed after being loaded into the data platform of choice. Why is this such a big deal?

> |  | ELT | ETL |

Reviewer 2: Same as ETL page, think this is using the old version!

Reviewer: If this is on both ETL and ELT pages, can we make it a snippet?

Reviewer 3: Good catch! I totally missed the changes to the table. Fixed in the latest commit

Having the transformation as the final step in the ELT workflow also allows data folks to leverage their understanding of the data and SQL to focus more on actually modeling the data. 

#### Promotes greater transparency for end busines users

Data teams can expose the version-controlled code used to transform data for analytics to end business users by no longer having transformations hidden in the ETL process. Instead of having to manually respond to the common question, “How is this data generated?” data folks can direct business users to documentation and repositories. Having end business users involved or viewing the data transformations promote greater collaboration and awareness between business and data folks.

## ELT tools

As mentioned earlier, the recent development of certain technologies and products has helped lower the barrier of entry to implementing the ELT workflow. Most of these new products act as one or two parts of the ELT process, but some have crossover across all three parts. We’ll outline some of the current tools in the ELT ecosystem below.

> | Product | E, L, or T? | Description | Open-source option? |

Reviewer 2: Idk why I thought this was committed when we were pairing on this before, but open-source should be 'open source'

Reviewer 2: Also making the column name 'E/T/L?' like in ETL page!

|---|---|---|---|
| Fivetran/HVR | E, some T, L | Fivetran is a SaaS company that helps data teams extract, load, and perform some transformation on their data. Fivetran easily integrates with modern data warehouses and dbt. They also offer transformations that leverage dbt Core. | :x: |
| Stitch by Talend | E, L | Stitch (part of Talend) is another SaaS product that has many data connectors to extract data and load it into data warehouses. | :x: |

> | Airbyte | E, L | Airbyte is an open-source and cloud service that allows teams to create data extraction and load pipelines. | :white_checl_mark: |

Reviewer 4: For Airbyte, think we're looking for :white_check_mark: vs :white_checl_mark:

Reviewer 3: Emojis strike again 😢 Fixed this in the latest commit.

| Funnel | E, some T, L | Funnel is another product that can extract and load data. Funnel’s data connectors are primarily focused around marketing data sources. | :x: |
| dbt | T | dbt is the transformation tool that enables data analysts and engineers to transform, test, and document data in the cloud data warehouse. dbt offers both an open-source and cloud-based product. | :white_check_mark: |

## Conclusion

The past few years have been a whirlwind for the data world. The increased accessibility and affordability of cloud warehouses, no-code data extractors and loaders, and a true transformation layer with dbt has allowed for the ELT workflow to become the preferred analytics workflow. ETL predates ELT and differs in when data is transformed. In both processes, data is first extracted from different sources. However, in ELT processes, data is loaded into the target data platform and then transformed. The ELT workflow ultimately allows for data team members to extract, load, and model their own data in a flexible, accessible, and scalable way.

## Further reading

> Check out some of our favorite content about the ELT workflow below:

Reviewer: Simplifying the language a little:
```suggestion
Here's some of our favorite content about the ELT workflow:
```

- [The Case for the ELT Workflow](https://www.getdbt.com/analytics-engineering/case-for-elt-workflow/)

> - [A Love Letter to ELT Tools](https://www.getdbt.com/analytics-engineering/etl-tools-a-love-letter/)

Reviewer 4: This post is ETL tools btw

Reviewer 3: Not following your comment here. Can you say that again in another way?

Reviewer 2: The title of the actual post is "A Love Letter to ETL Tools" vs it's currently "A Love Letter to _ELT_ Tools"

Reviewer 3: Ah I see now. I'm going blind after looking at these markdowns for so long lol. Thanks for pointing this out
